you are gross okay you high school
dropout criminal pieces why would we
want you back I don't understand why
anyone would think that you know what
good did you ever do for us imagine what
a different world would be living in if
an isiand had just one male figure in
his life doesn't have to be a father
doesn't have to be a brother
it could be anyone if you had just one
self-confident older male friend whom he
respected enough just to hear him out
just to let him challenge his
preconceptions a little bit not just
contemptuously dismiss him insult him
shut him down
the moment they they disagree what if
there was some other dude present in
Annecy ins life who was saying to him we
made each one of these decisions nah man
think it through man you're doing the
wrong thing man you screw up man no no
okay you enjoy recording that video
where you said that thing can you
watched it back wash it back once or
twice okay now delete it no never let
another human being see that you know
man if you upload that think about the
impact it's going to have on your
ex-girlfriend think about the impact
it's gonna have on your next girlfriend
think about the impact it's gonna have
on your kids whether you're talking
about present tense when he has two kids
or in the past which I would
hypothetical kids in the future what if
you had a male friend not necessarily a
role model just someone he respects
enough your amount what if he had a male
friend to engage in Socratic method with
him just in a little challenging ways
like yeah you know what you know what
dude what you just said to me right now
makes a lot of sense why don't you try
saying the exact opposite to me and and
see how that sounds
see if that makes more sense or less
sense I said that as an exercise to a
male friend of mine couple months ago
now I remember this dude he was writing
to me saying oh you know
girl she flunked out of school but I
still think she's really brilliant
really intelligent and you know um she's
not like anybody else she's specialist
in a whole bunch of stuff like this was
a long statement
it's okay Wow what if we just doesn't
thought I says playful went through and
said the exact opposite of each one of
those things step by step the dude did
it I didn't I didn't think he'd take it
quite so literally but he as an exercise
he went back and he like rewrote his own
email where instead he was saying you
know she's not special she's like anyone
else she dropped out of school and I
don't really know if she's brilliant or
stupid or not like you know well instead
of saying she dropped out of school and
I'm certain she's still gifted she's
still special it's like she dropped out
of school when I don't really know I
don't really know how he tells you he
isn't that interesting which one sounds
more like the truth the thing you were
insisting on so passionately five
minutes ago or or just the hypothetical
exercise of saying the exact opposite
you know um it's a really weird moment
in the philosophy of Socrates and as
always we're talking with Socrates it's
not really his philosophy in this case
it's the philosophy of Socrates as
rewritten by Plato but um as a moment
where Socrates is talking to a younger
man at the start of his political career
this is alkie be at ease alka be at ease
goes on to be an incredibly famous and
infamous military leader political
interpretation and at the beginning of
this discussion
the younger man is very skeptical about
Socrates like why do I need your help
why are you trying to help me whatever
and Socrates is really trying to sell
them on this idea look kid you're at the
start of a political career you want to
be a successful public figure you want
to be a successful politician leader of
men etc you need me you need my advice
you need my guidance you need my
philosophy you need my friendship and
they have this long long discussion long
philosophical action and the kid the kid
is buying it the kid is
convinced of this stage of the
discussion okay Wow Socrates this is the
philosopher I need in my corner this is
the friend I need on my team to help me
take the next step of my political
career and Socrates basically says to
him he changes the nature of the sales
pitch before it was about politics and
democracy and the nature of justice and
all of a sudden the tone shifts and so
he says you know why that is kid you
know you know why you need my help you
know why you need my advice because the
knowledge you're after in fact is
knowledge of self and in the same way
that the human eye be holds its own
reflection when looking into the pupil
of another human eye in the same way the
soul only be holds its own reflection
when looking into another similar human
soul so the sales pitch Socrates is
ultimately making is not that he's gonna
help this kid out by telling him
anything in particular about politics or
democracy or justice or law or
philosophy no he's gonna help this kid
out self-knowledge with knowing that's
not but how is he gonna do that he's
gonna do it through dialogue through
discussion through conversation with the
idea being that in debating Socrates and
disagreeing with or talking about these
philosophical problems it's not so much
that the kid will arrive at the truth
but that will he will arrive at a better
understanding of who he himself is by
examining himself as reflected in the
eyes of Socrates whew what a sales pitch
damn for 300 years
these were tremendously influential
ideas in European philosophy and even
religion and then you know this whole
Jesus Christ thing just
steamrolled over antiquity and wiped out
intellectual legacy Asami's no that is
not that is not a philosophy I believe
in myself you know that is not a
religion I would want to be a member of
to be honest to you I think that when
you sit down with a therapist you're
just paying a stranger to talk to you
and pretend that they're your friend I
don't think you are gaining
self-knowledge I don't think you are
making any kind of progress
philosophically I don't really think I
can believe in the method of Socrates
neither on a pragmatic level nor on a
kind of permit profound and spiritual
over this way but nevertheless you look
at a guy like an SEM you gotta say if he
just had someone else in his life just
to reflect back to him just to challenge
him on these things you know step step
by step as he made each terrible mistake
you know just the challenge say yeah you
know what cadence that mean why don't
you why don't you try it again saying
the exact opposite of what you just said
to me okay well you know whatever the
thought says okay let's talk it through
what if you're wrong what if you do okay
if you do that what do you expect is
gonna happen okay you know what if that
doesn't happen what if it's the opposite
what if the outcome is something other
than your anticipated talking these
things through well how are you gonna
feel looking back at this five years
from now how does your ex-wife gonna
feel how's your ex karma how's your next
girlfriend gonna feel how your kids
gonna feel with this whatever the lens
is I mean again these are all pretty
shallow issues too but you know shallow
problems are not easy to solve what is a
nisshin's fundamental problem he doesn't
know how to romance women he doesn't
know how to do anything with women he
never has right so what are you gonna
say that's shallow it's not easy to
solve it's not easy for people to talk
about it's not easy for people to ask
for help about love and then if they do
ask for help right they don't get it
you're not gonna get it from a therapist
you're not gonna get it from the school
principal not gonna get it from the cops
nobody is gonna explain to you the stuff
that it is
you know fundamentally doesn't this -
okay look it's one more one more mind
trick for you guys to play on yourselves
when you don't sympathize with someone
when you know for a fact that you do not
sympathize with someone challenge
yourself to analyze the situation it can
be in five seconds to do a quick
analysis situation challenge yourself to
do it as if you did sympathize with
right what if what if we did sympathize
with an SEO I don't but what if I did
okay
fundamentally he's a dude trying to get
ahead as a comedian nobody thinks he's
funny one person in a million that finds
this guy's sense of humor funny
very few people share assess view you
know what that makes him more
sympathetic he's trying to get ahead as
a comedian in a world where he has a
very niche market right okay that's
sympathetic okay he's got two kids he's
trying to raise two kids out in the
middle of nowhere rural Washington state
similar okay you know what that's
sympathetic he said take on this
responsibility charity that's trying to
he's trying in his way to be a good
person not just for his own family and
not just in relation to his comedic
audience it's pathetic but he gets on
one moral crusade after another whether
it's vegetarianism or telling people to
improve their hairstyles you know weight
loss anorexia gender identity it's a
whole linee even some kind of
stereotypical left-wing issues right
he's always on one crusade after another
he's always got this quality of trying
to make the world a better place he just
doesn't know how to do it he just sucks
at it right and it's kind of similar to
his thing with women you know he wants
you want some more love in his life he
wants to love others and be loved and
that's not an evil thing he's just sucks
and he's just terrible at it all right
you know what that's that's a pretty
sympathetic person I'm describing right
hypothetically it's possible to imagine
yourself sympathizing and then of course
we could say really quickly while we
don't sympathize
we don't sympathize with it because he's
the aggressor we don't sympathize them
because he's out here actively trying to
destroy other people's lives he's out
here trying to ruin their reputations
denounce and defame them you know to
such an extent was so mean-spirited and
vicious and petty there are all these
things that make it impossible to send
Muslim including his refusal to ever
take responsibility the really long term
negative impacts are the people in his
life whereas you know he's walking away
laughing in their faces you know often
literally and boasting about how he
dumped them and how they tell people
there were a lot of really obvious
reasons for what we don't but
nevertheless the dumb [ __ ] spent the
money on makeup how do you spend ten
grand we paid her to do a job she didn't
do a makeup I don't understand that so
then she acts like we're just terrible
people from taking away from her job at
Target oh yeah big loss there we paid
you more than double what you would have
made at your [ __ ] job Target and
you're a victim somehow I don't
understand that so we give you more
money to do a job that you didn't even
do easy for you John so you could fly
out here on our dime get all these meals
on our dime get all your Starbucks on
our dime just so you don't even wash
your armpits think of our own our whole
house you know and then after we dump
you so many times you have the nerve to
with your new ugly downgrade of a
boyfriend spread these rumors that were
emailing your scumbag piece when we
don't want you you are gross so what do
we just do there with this kind of
reflection I don't think for one minute
that what we're doing here is what
Socrates was presenting to us in his
sales pitch over 2,000 years ago when
friends talk about problems these ways
even when friends use some kind of
Socratic method broadly speaking I don't
think what we're doing at all is
engaging in a voyage of self-knowledge I
think that the soul be holds its own
reflection in the other person's I don't
think that's happening at all
I think what we're doing is challenging
one another's motivated reasoning we're
challenging what you want to believe
what you feel certain of asking you to
reflect for a little bit
not even to consider it from my
perspective but to consider it from any
other hypothetical person's perspective
from a detached perspective and all of a
sudden what opens up are all these
terrible obvious possibilities that
probably on some level you had thought
out of before but didn't want to let
yourself think about before so I
mentioned my friend who was writing to
me saying this girl dropped at a school
but I'm certain she's still gifted and
brilliant smaller than someone what why
why would you be serious babe maybe she
dropped out of school for a reason but
just just asking the question just
reflecting on it just having another
person your life who can stand up to you
and and prompt you to reflect on this
from a radically alien perspective not
necessarily mine not necessarily yours
but a detached perspective that's
something really valuable and it
actually has nothing to do with a
philosophy of sorries I think so I think
Socrates was given the right advice for
the wrong reason speaker even the
exercise we just talked through like
okay so this guy in this in you don't
sympathize them at all but if we take a
step back and think about the ways in
which his his situation is sympathetic
the ways in which we might sympathize
with it that's a useful tool even if it
is just ultimately in helping us
understand more fully why it is we don't
sympathize why it is that we harshly
condemn it okay said bye bye [ __ ] bye
see you later so to the new loser pie
head drug addict boyfriend go enjoy the
chick that we dumped okay enjoy the
chick that wasn't good enough for us to
keep enjoy
dirty sloppy second girlfriend peace dad
[Music]